Create sample addin / documentation for Ribbon Visibility (#1515)
OfficeDev/Office-Add-in-samples: Samples/office-visibility/README.md

---
title: Show or hide the ribbon controls of an Office Add-in
page_type: sample
urlFragment: office-visibility
products:
  - office-excel
  - office-word
  - office-powerpoint
  - office
  - m365
languages:
  - typescript
extensions:
  contentType: samples
  technologies:
    - Add-ins
  createdDate: "08/10/2026 10:00:00 AM"
description: "This sample shows how to set and change the visibility of groups and controls on a custom Office Add-in ribbon tab."
---

# Show or hide controls on a custom ribbon tab

This sample shows how to set the initial visibility of groups and controls on a custom ribbon tab and how to change their visibility at runtime. It uses the unified manifest for Microsoft 365, a shared runtime, and `Office.ribbon.requestUpdate()`.

The **Contoso Visibility** tab contains the following UI.

> - A **Taskpane** group that always remains visible so the sample controls stay accessible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A **Task pane** group that always remains visible so the sample controls stay accessible.
```

> - A **Primary commands** group that is initially visible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A **Primary commands** group that's initially visible.
```

- **Button 1**, which is initially visible.

> - **Button 2**, which uses `"visible": false` in the manifest.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Button 2**, which is initially hidden.
```
For consistency with the rest of the items in the list.

- A **Sample menu** whose visibility can be changed at runtime.

> - A **Secondary commands** group that uses `"visible": false` in the manifest.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A **Secondary commands** group that's initially hidden.
```

> The taskpane lets you show or hide any sample button or menu, show or hide entire groups, update several elements in one request, and restore the manifest defaults.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The task pane lets you show or hide any sample button or menu, show or hide entire groups, update several elements in one request, and restore the manifest defaults.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

To learn more about managing the visibility of controls on a custom tab, see [Show or hide add-in commands on a custom tab](https://learn.microsoft.com/office/dev/add-ins/design/show-hide-controls-custom-tab).

```

## Applies to

This sample is supported in Excel, PowerPoint, and Word on the following platforms.

- Office on the web
- Office on Windows: Version 2606 (Build 16.0.20112.15190) and later
- Office on Mac: Version 16.109.1 (Build 260512.115) and later

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

For more information, see [Ribbon API 1.3 requirement set](https://learn.microsoft.com/javascript/api/requirement-sets/common/ribbon-api-requirement-sets).

```

## Prerequisites

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) (the latest LTS version).

> - Office connected to a Microsoft 365 subscription.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Office connected to a Microsoft 365 subscription. Get a [free developer sandbox](https://developer.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/dev-program#Subscription) that provides a renewable 90-day Microsoft 365 E5 developer subscription.
```

> - An Office version listed in [Applies to](#applies-to).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A [supported Office version](#applies-to).
```

## Version history

| Version | Date | Comments |
| ------- | ---- | -------- |
| 1.0 | 08-10-2026 | Initial release |

## Solution

| Solution | Author(s) |
| -------- | --------- |
| Show or hide controls on a custom ribbon tab | Microsoft |

## Run the sample

The add-in web files are served from `https://localhost:3000` on your computer.

1. Clone or download this repository.
1. In a console or terminal, go to the root of the project folder **Samples/office-visibility**.
1. Run the following command to install the dependencies.

    ```console
    npm install
    ```

1. Run the following command to start the local web server and sideload the add-in in Excel.

    ```console
    npm start
    ```

    To use another desktop application, run the applicable command instead.

    ```console
    npm run start:desktop:word
    npm run start:desktop:powerpoint
    ```

    To test in Office on the web, run the applicable command to sideload the add-in in your preferred desktop application. Once sideloaded, the add-in also appears on the web client.

> 1. When the Office application opens, select the **Contoso Visibility** tab and then select **Show taskpane**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. When the Office application opens, select the **Contoso Visibility** tab and then select **Show task pane**.
```

1. Follow the steps in [Try the sample](#try-the-sample).
1. To stop the web server, run the following command.

    ```console
    npm stop
    ```

## Try the sample

1. On the **Contoso Visibility** tab, verify the initial ribbon state.
    - The **Taskpane** and **Primary commands** groups are visible.
    - **Button 1** is visible.
    - **Button 2** isn't visible.
    - The **Secondary commands** group isn't visible.

> 1. In the taskpane, under **Control visibility**, select **Button 2**, and then select **Show control**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the task pane, under **Control visibility**, select **Button 2**, and then select **Show control**.
```

    The button appears in the **Primary commands** group.
1. Select **Sample menu**, and then select **Hide control**.

    The menu is removed from the ribbon.
1. Under **Group visibility**, select **Secondary commands**, and then select **Show group**.

    The group and its two buttons appear on the ribbon.
1. Under **Control visibility**, select **Secondary button one**, and then select **Hide control**.

    **Secondary button one** disappears while **Secondary button two** remains visible.
1. Under **Batch operations**, try **Hide all sample content**, **Show all sample content**, and **Restore manifest defaults**. Each operation updates the ribbon with one call to `Office.ribbon.requestUpdate()`.

## Key parts of the sample

### Set initial visibility in the manifest

> The `visible` property in **manifest.json** sets the initial visibility of a custom tab, group, button, or menu. The default value is `true`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `visible` property in the **manifest.json** file sets the initial visibility of a group, button, or menu in a custom tab. The default value is `true`.
```

> The following example makes a button initially hidden.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example initially hides a button.
```

```json
{
  "id": "Button2",
  "type": "button",
  "label": "Button 2",
  "actionId": "button2Action",
  "visible": false
}
```

> Initial visibility is supported by version 1.28 and later of the unified manifest for Microsoft 365.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `visible` property is supported starting in Version 1.28 and later of the unified manifest for Microsoft 365.
```

### Change visibility at runtime

> The shared runtime calls `Office.ribbon.requestUpdate()` with the IDs from the manifest. The following example shows a control.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The shared runtime calls `Office.ribbon.requestUpdate()` using the control IDs from the manifest. The following example shows how to set the visibility of a control using the `requestUpdate` method.
```

```typescript
await Office.ribbon.requestUpdate({
  tabs: [
    {
      id: "ContosoVisibilityTab",
      groups: [
        {
          id: "PrimaryGroup",
          controls: [
            {
              id: "Button2",
              visible: true
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
});
```

> To show or hide a group, set `visible` on the group object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To show or hide a group, set the `visible` property on the applicable group object.
```

```typescript
await Office.ribbon.requestUpdate({
  tabs: [
    {
      id: "ContosoVisibilityTab",
      groups: [
        {
          id: "SecondaryGroup",
          visible: true
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
});
```

Only the properties included in the request are changed. The sample batches related group and control changes into one request when possible.

## Additional resources

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

- [Show or hide add-in commands on a custom tab](https://learn.microsoft.com/office/dev/add-ins/design/show-hide-controls-custom-tab)
-  [Ribbon API 1.3 requirement set](https://learn.microsoft.com/javascript/api/requirement-sets/common/ribbon-api-requirement-sets)
```

- [Add-in commands](https://learn.microsoft.com/office/dev/add-ins/design/add-in-commands)
- [Office.Ribbon interface](https://learn.microsoft.com/javascript/api/office/office.ribbon)
- [Office.RibbonUpdaterData interface](https://learn.microsoft.com/javascript/api/office/office.ribbonupdaterdata?view=common-js-preview)
- [Unified manifest for Microsoft 365](https://learn.microsoft.com/office/dev/add-ins/develop/unified-manifest-overview)

> - [Ribbon tab schema](https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/extensibility/schema/extension-ribbons-array-tabs-item?view=m365-app-1.28)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Since tab-level visibility isn't supported.

> - [Ribbon group schema](https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/extensibility/schema/extension-ribbons-custom-tab-groups-item?view=m365-app-1.28)
> - [Ribbon control schema](https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/extensibility/schema/extension-common-custom-group-controls-item?view=m365-app-1.28)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Ribbon group schema](https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/extensibility/schema/extension-ribbons-custom-tab-groups-item)
- [Ribbon control schema](https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/extensibility/schema/extension-common-custom-group-controls-item)
```
Link will always open to the latest schema version.
